In Chrome DevTools, 
Fetch/XHR is a filter label in the Network panel that groups both XMLHttpRequest (XHR) and Fetch API network requests.
XMLHttpRequest: A legacy JavaScript API introduced in the late 1990s for asynchronous HTTP requests (AJAX). 
Fetch API: A modern, Promise-based standard introduced in 2015 that simplifies request handling and supports features like streams and abort controllers. 
Using this filter allows developers to inspect, debug, and analyze all asynchronous data exchanges between the browser and server in a single view. 

In the context of network diagnostics, recording typically refers to generating an HTTP Archive (HAR) file, which logs all network requests and responses made by a browser while loading a website

py -m pip install requests
What is Requests?

Remember:

Browser
   ↓
Credco API

Requests allows Python to behave like a browser.

So instead of Chrome asking:

Give me PP prices

Python will ask:


Give me PP prices




And the server replied:

200

which means:

"Request accepted. Here is the data."

{
  "product_name":"PP IOCL",
  "current_price":"135.50"
}

This is called JSON.

JSON is simply a way computers exchange data.

import requests

means:

"Bring the requests library into my program so I can use its functions."


data = response.json()

means:

"Take the JSON text from the response and convert it into Python objects."


psycopg2

allows Python to talk to PostgreSQL.

The cursor sends SQL commands to PostgreSQL.

Now Python is running SQL for you.

CREATE TABLE  -> create table
DROP TABLE    -> destroy table

ON CONFLICT

Think:

If product does not exist
        ↓
Insert it

If product already exists
        ↓
Update it


FastAPI is a Python framework used to create APIs very quickly.

What is Uvicorn?

Think:

FastAPI = Your API Code

Uvicorn = The Server That Runs It

http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs

FastAPI automatically generates a professional API documentation page.

Most beginners' minds are blown the first time they see this.

JSON means:

JavaScript Object Notation

It is simply a text format for storing and sending data.

7. Why JSON?

Because it is:

Easy for humans
{
  "name": "Himanshu"
}
Easy for machines

Every language can read it:

Python
JavaScript
Java
C#
Go
Rust

Everything supports JSON.

Collect rates daily
↓
Store automatically

Then you only maintain the scraper if the source website changes.

Before writing a single line of code, spend one evening answering:

Which website(s) will provide the daily rates?

If you find 2–3 websites that consistently publish polymer rates, then you can make the project almost completely self-maintaining.

Without an automatic source, no amount of coding can make the data update itself. The data has to come from somewhere.

how to do web scraping ?

Web scraping means:

A program visits a webpage, reads the HTML, extracts the information you want, and saves it.

For example, if a page contains:

<div class="price">
PP Raffia: ₹102/kg
</div>

Your scraper can extract:

PP Raffia = 102

and store it in PostgreSQL.

Step 1: Learn Basic Python

Since you'll likely use Python for scraping:

print("Hello")

Learn:

Variables
Loops
Functions
Lists
Dictionaries

This can be done in a few days.

Step 2: Learn Requests

Install:

pip install requests

Example:

import requests

url = "https://example.com"

response = requests.get(url)

print(response.text)

This downloads the page HTML.

Step 3: Learn BeautifulSoup

Install:

pip install beautifulsoup4

Example:

from bs4 import BeautifulSoup
import requests

html = requests.get(url).text

soup = BeautifulSoup(html, "html.parser")

print(soup.title.text)

Now you can find specific elements.

Step 4: Use Browser Inspect

Open Chrome:

Right Click
Inspect
Find the price element

Example:

<span class="price">
102
</span>

Then:

price = soup.find("span", class_="price").text
Step 5: Save to Database

After extracting:

price = 102

Store in PostgreSQL:

Material   Price   Date
PP          102    2026-06-18
Step 6: Automate

Linux cron:

0 9 * * * python scraper.py

Runs every day at 9 AM.

The flow becomes:

Website
   ↓
Python Scraper
   ↓
PostgreSQL
   ↓
Node.js API
   ↓
React Dashboard
One thing to check first

Before learning scraping, visit the website you want to use and see:

Can you view today's rates without logging in?
Or does it require an account/payment?

Many business sites (including some polymer-rate services) hide data behind login pages. If the rates are behind authentication or paywalls, scraping becomes more complicated and sometimes may violate the site's terms. If you tell me the exact site you're planning to use, I can explain whether it's likely to be straightforward to scrape or not.


Why API > Scraping

Scraping

Website HTML
    ↓
Python Scraper
    ↓
Extract Text

Breaks when website design changes.

API

Website API
    ↓
Your Backend
    ↓
Database

Much more stable and professional.

DevTools (Developer Tools) is a toolbox built into browsers like Chrome, Edge, and Firefox that lets developers inspect and debug websites.

The tabs you'll use most for your project
1. Elements

Shows the HTML and CSS currently on the page.

Example:

<div class="card">
  PP Reliance
</div>

You can:

Inspect UI elements
Test CSS changes live
See why a component looks wrong

2. Console

Shows JavaScript logs and errors.

Example:

console.log(products);

Output appears here.

If your React app crashes, you'll often see errors like:

ReferenceError: Toaster is not defined

which you recently encountered.

3. Network (VERY IMPORTANT)

This is where you can see API calls.

For your project:

GET /products
GET /products/1
GET /products/1/history

will appear here.

You can inspect:

Request URL
Request method (GET, POST)
Response data
Response time
Status codes

Example:

GET http://127.0.0.1:8000/products

Status: 200 OK

or

Status: 500 Internal Server Error

4. Application

Shows:

Local Storage
Session Storage
Cookies

For your project:

polymetric.watchlist
polymetric.alerts

are stored in Local Storage.

You can view them here.

So Fetch/XHR in DevTools = all API communication between your frontend and backend. That's usually the first place developers look when debugging a web app.

Chrome only shows requests that happened after Network monitoring starts.

A database is like a giant organized notebook:

Data stays there even if:

Computer Restarted
Program Closed
Power Off

data stored in RAM (memory).

When the program ends:

Memory Cleared

Everything disappears.

difference between nosql AND SQL



Finished
The primary difference between SQL and NoSQL databases lies in their data structure, scalability, and consistency models. 

Core Differences
SQL databases are relational, storing data in predefined tables with rows and columns.  They require a fixed schema, meaning the structure must be defined before data entry.  In contrast, NoSQL databases are non-relational, utilizing various models like document-based, key-value, graph, or wide-column stores.  They feature a dynamic schema, allowing for the storage of unstructured or semi-structured data without prior definition. 

1. Data Structure and Schema
SQL databases enforce a rigid structure where data integrity is maintained through strict relationships and constraints. Changing the schema (e.g., adding a column) often requires migration and can cause downtime. NoSQL databases offer schema-on-read flexibility, enabling developers to add new fields to individual records instantly without affecting the entire database, which accelerates development for evolving data models. 


SQL vs NoSQL schema flexibility

View all
2. Scalability and Performance
SQL systems typically scale vertically, requiring more powerful hardware (CPU, RAM) to handle increased loads, which can become cost-prohibitive at massive scales.  NoSQL systems are designed for horizontal scaling, distributing data across multiple commodity servers.  This makes NoSQL superior for handling massive volumes of data and high-velocity write operations, while SQL generally performs better for complex queries involving joins and transactions on moderate datasets. 


SQL vs NoSQL scalability

View all
3. Consistency Models
SQL databases prioritize ACID compliance (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability), ensuring strong data consistency and reliability for every transaction.  This is critical for financial systems. NoSQL databases often follow the BASE model (Basically Available, Soft state, Eventual consistency), prioritizing availability and partition tolerance over immediate consistency.  This trade-off allows for higher throughput and uptime in distributed systems. 


ACID vs BASE database consistency

View all
Ideal Use Cases
SQL is the preferred choice for applications requiring complex transactions, multi-row operations, and strict data integrity.  Common examples include banking systems, ERP software, and inventory management, where accurate relationships between data points are paramount. 

NoSQL excels in scenarios involving large-scale unstructured data, real-time analytics, and rapid prototyping.  It is ideal for social media platforms, content management systems, IoT applications, and big data lakes where speed and flexibility outweigh the need for complex joins. 


CREATE TABLE prices (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    product_name TEXT,
    product_grade TEXT,
    price NUMERIC(10,2),
    fetched_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);

py

Means:

Run Python

-m
install

Command given to pip.
Means:

Run a Python module

pip

Pip is Python's package manager.
It downloads libraries from the internet.


psycopg2-binary

This is the package name.

psycopg2 is a library that allows:

Python ↔ PostgreSQL

communication.

Why do we need Uvicorn?

FastAPI only knows:

How to process requests

It doesn't know:

How to listen on a network port
How to accept browser connections
How to serve HTTP traffic

That's Uvicorn's job.

SELECT * FROM price_history LIMIT 5;


py -m uvicorn app:app --reload
So:

app:app

means:

Open app.py
Find the FastAPI object called app
Run it

--reload
Auto-restart when code changes

Swagger is an automatically generated webpage that lets you see and test your API without writing frontend code.

"I tested endpoints through FastAPI's Swagger UI at /docs before integrating them with the React frontend."

npm install axios
npm
Node Package Manager

JavaScript's package manager.



Equivalent of:

pip for Python

axios
Library used to call APIs

autoprefixer
Automatically adds browser compatibility code


postcss
CSS processor

Reads CSS and transforms it before the browser sees it.
npx
Run a package without installing it globally

Think:

npm = install package

npx = execute package

-p
Also create PostCSS config

Creates:

postcss.config.js

/* /index.html 200

tells the hosting server:

"No matter which React route the user visits, always load index.html and let React handle the routing."


Think of _redirects as:

"Always send the user into the building (index.html)."

And react-router-dom as the receptionist inside:

"Oh, you're looking for /products/5? Room = ProductDetails page."

When Netlify/Vercel sees:

/*  /index.html  200

it internally does something like:

IF user requests ANY path
    return index.html

.gitignore is one of the most important files in a project.

Simple meaning

It tells Git:

"Ignore these files. Don't upload them to GitHub."

.env

Contains secrets:

DB_PASSWORD=mysecretpassword
API_KEY=abcd1234

never upload these9


A Hook is a special function that lets you use React features (like state, lifecycle, etc.) inside functional components.

React component = a person
Hooks = superpowers you give that person

useState → memory power
useEffect → reaction power
useRef → storage box that doesn’t rerender

Functions starting with "use" are hooks

useState
useEffect
useContext
useMemo
useApi ← custom hook